英语大作文
大作文备考题型：
1）图表情景文：
A.	动态开头段
B.	静态开头段；
2）图画情景文：图画开头段；
3）文字情景文：文字开头段；

图表文（4-4-2）：
P1：读图—描写数据；(4-5句)
P2：分析原因(3个)；(4句)
P3：总结+预测；（2句）
模板：
首段（文字+图表[动态/静态数据]+图画）不同；
二、三段相同。

动态数据图(起止年份数据变化)：
2020、2019、2017、2014、2011
静态数据图(不同对象之间的比较)
2020、2018、2016、2015、2013、2012

图表文写作步骤：
1）审图：动态/静态；
2）确定写作阵型：442/ 542;
3）分类开头：动态开头/静态开头；
4）动态开头：
S1: 写变化：
S2: 具体变化（对象1）：升/降（幅度）；
S3：数据引用（对象1）：开始-后来；
S4：与此同时（对象2）：














静态数据图：
1）审图：动态/静态；
2）确定主题句：
3）确定对象词：
4）确定比例词：percentage/ proportion/ ratio/ share;
5）确定比例大小：
大：
小：
中间数字：不分述；
6）静态图阵型：442
S1：有差异（有几个馅儿）；
S2：最大馅儿；
S3：最小馅儿；
S4：次最大馅儿；（视情况而定）
S4：余馅儿一口吃。

2017年真题：
1）动态：
2）确定对象：2个对象；
3）确定趋势：一种趋势- 两种幅度；
4）确定主题词：2013-2015我国博物馆数量和参观人数（名词/名词短语）
英文拟写：
The numbers of museums and visitors in three years from 2013 to 2015. 
5）确定对象词：
对象1：参观人数：the number of visitors；
对象2：博物馆数量：the number of museums;
2018年真题：
主题句：2017年某市消费者选择餐厅时关注5大因素；
拟写：consumers in a certain city considered five factors when choosing restaurants in 2017.
/ consumers in a certain city took (five factors) into account when choosing restaurants in 2017.
对象词：特色：feature/ characteristics/ specialty
服务：service 环境：environment/ surrroundings 价格：price/ cost
占...比例：Take up，Occupy，Represent，Account for，Constitute 
备注：过去的时间：一般过去时，未来的时间：一般将来时，不指明时间时：一般现在时
模板改写：









正面：8句
XXX can broaden our horizon, enlarge our scope of knowledge and enrich our spiritual civilization

xxx provides us with convenience

xxx meets such kind of need in physical and psychological aspects

xxx wins the appreciation of the pubilc

xxx is a kind of lubricant for interpersonal relationships

xxx can stimulate one' s interest and tap one' s potential

Nothing, except xxx, can play a more dispensable role in the cultivation of one' s personality

负面：8句
The goal of achieving a harmonious society may fall through under the negative influence of xxx.

xxx brings great loss to both the individual and the whole society

xxx kills a great mass of time

It is an epitome of the disharmonious relation between the society and human beings in a specific aspect of xxx.

Never before in history has the issue of xxx been more evident than now.

There is a growing worldwide awareness of the need for xxx.

Greed and a total lack of social consciousness have been cited as major reasons for xxx.

Rapid economic growth may lead to an over extension of resources and lead to an eventual catastrophic meltdown.













静态：What is shown in the chart above reveals clearly that 主题句 
（consumers in a certain city considered five factors when choosing restaurants in 2017.）
Based upon the data of the chart, one can see that the 最大的馅(feature) takes up the largest proportion(36.8%). While 最小的馅(other factors) occupy the least  percentage(4.7%). S4: In addition, 余 馅 一 口 吃 （ service and environment and price account for 26.8% , 23.8% and 8.4% respectively.） 

动态：What is shown in the chart above reveals clearly that remarkable changes have taken place  with  regard to +主题词（the numbers of museums and visitors in three years from 2013 to 2015.）Based  upon  the data of the chart,  one  can see  that  the number of visitors has  been on a sharp rise all the time. In the year of  2013,  it   was  only about  63.78 million, while within no more than several/(three) years,  it went up to 78.11 million in 2015. At the same time, the number of museums has experienced a gradual increase + from 4165 to 4692. 

It’s of no difficulty to come up with several possible factors to account for the trend. At the top of the list, with the rapid development of our economy and the steady improvement of living standards,论据1 正1：visiting museums can broaden our horizon, enlarge our scope of knowledge and enrich our spiritual civilization. In the second, we must admit that 论据2 正3：a visit to museums meet(s)such kind of need in physical and psychological aspects. Last but not least, the fact could not be ignored that 论据3 正5：the construction of cultural industry wins the appreciation of the public.

Considering what has been discussed so far, we could safely come to the conclusion that the trend is normal and acceptable/ positive. Accordingly, it is of no necessity for the public to regard it with too much anxiety.  And I firmly believe that the situation will continue for quite a while in the years to come.



















图画情景作文开头段
写作步骤：
1）读Directions:
2）审图：看主题- 描写图画；
3）确认主题：拟写主题词；
案例写作：温室花朵
【赞美图画】S1：This  thought-provoking  drawing  will catch every reader’s attention by its startling originality. 
【感慨】S2：Looking at the drawing,  I believe, every reader will  sink into meditation upon its implication. 【描述】S3：As is shown by the cartoon, 图画描述（A flower grows in the greenhouse, but dies in a rain./ Flowers growing in the greenhouse can’t survive storms.） 
【解读】S4: Needless to say, this picture is meant to illustrate the gravity of +主题词(over-protection/ harm from excessive love).
It’s of no difficulty to come up with several possible factors to account for the trend. At the top of the list, with the rapid development of our economy and the steady improvement of living standards,论据1 正1：visiting museums can broaden our horizon, enlarge our scope of knowledge and enrich our spiritual civilization. In the second, we must admit that 论据2 正3：a visit to museums meet(s)such kind of need in physical and psychological aspects. Last but not least, the fact could not be ignored that 论据3 正5：the construction of cultural industry wins the appreciation of the public.

Considering what has been discussed so far, we could safely come to the conclusion that the trend is normal and acceptable/ positive. Accordingly, it is of no necessity for the public to regard it with too much anxiety.  And I firmly believe that the situation will continue for quite a while in the years to come.



















文字情景作文开头段
写作步骤：
S1: 总写趋势；
S2: 双方互不同意；
S3：有人支持，有人反对；
S4：我看是好事/坏事；

案例写作：
Nowadays, more and more students choose to study overseas. Many people express their different opinions about this matter. Some think of it advantageous, while others the opposite. Please write an essay to:
1) Express your own point of view; 
2) Explain for your reasons.
NO LESS THAN 150 words. 
模板改写：
【趋势】S1：These days, it has become an increasingly hot topic among the public that + 主题句 a growing number of students tend to study in other countries.
【双方不同意】 S2：Whenever it comes to this subject, there will always spring up opposite voices. 
【有人满意】 S3： Some people tend to view it as a blessing, 【有人抱怨】while others claim that it’s a hell. 
【我看是好事/坏事】S4： For my part, I am inclined to support the former view. 
It’s of no difficulty to come up with several possible factors to account for the trend. At the top of the list, with the rapid development of our economy and the steady improvement of living standards,论据1 正1：visiting museums can broaden our horizon, enlarge our scope of knowledge and enrich our spiritual civilization. In the second, we must admit that 论据2 正3：a visit to museums meet(s)such kind of need in physical and psychological aspects. Last but not least, the fact could not be ignored that 论据3 正5：the construction of cultural industry wins the appreciation of the public.

Considering what has been discussed so far, we could safely come to the conclusion that the trend is normal and acceptable/ positive. Accordingly, it is of no necessity for the public to regard it with too much anxiety.  And I firmly believe that the situation will continue for quite a while in the years to come.










小作文（应用文）写作
1）2020年备考重点：
书信（未考的特别重视）＞通知＞备忘录＞报告；
2）格式：
书信：称呼语-正文-落款
3）标题：书信无标题—通知：NOTICE—备忘录：MEMO;
4）句子阵型：142；
5）写作模板：以书信为例：首末段基本相同，中间段不同；
6）各段构成：以书信为例
P1：写信的目的；I am writing this letter for the purpose of+ 
辞职：resigning from the current position;
求职：applying for the position+as+职位/身份；
申请：applying to be+ 职业/身份；
道歉：making apology for+缘由；
祝贺：conveying my sincerest congratulations to you for+缘由；
邀请：inviting you to do sth/ to+ 活动/场合；
投诉：making complaints about+缘由；
询问：asking for information regarding/ concerning/ about/ with regard to/ in reference to
建议：making suggestions on/ about+ 缘由；
感谢：conveying/ expressing my deepest appreciation/ thanks to you for+缘由；
缘由：sth/ (not) doing sth;
P2：写理由（不同文体，不同结构）；
P3：感谢+	期待；

书信通用要求: 标准格式，142阵形
• 书信格式：要求采用缩进式，缩进可以4 或8个字母
• (1) 称呼顶格：
• 个人：Dear Mr./Ms./ Mrs. /Judy/Jack,(用逗号)
• 机构：Dear Sir or Madam, /To whom it may concern,
/ To those concerned，…
• 专业：Dear Dr. Wang, / Dear Professor Wang, / Dear
Editor Wang，…
(2) 正文缩进4 字：通常分三段，句子数量：1，4，2，
或1，5，2 内容为：
• 首段：写信目的1句
• 中段：写信详情4或5 句，通常1句总述，3到4句分述
• 尾段：收尾2句，S1：感谢看信，S2：期待回信
• 3， 落款在右边：
• Yours truly, / Yours faithfully,/ Yours sincerely,
• NAME



3.2 求职信、 申请信(application letter/cover letter &
Applying letter )
• 1，outline：
• P1【写信目的求职】
• P2【我有资质.教育背景.工作经验.自身素质】
• P3【感激面试.期待回应】
• 具体步骤：
• Para1, S1, writing the letter, purpose, applying for a position
• Para2,S1,my qualifications, meet your requirements  
S2,In the first place, major , in line with this job
S2,In the second, previous work experience, help lay a solid foundation
S3,In addition, a good team player, self-motivated and eager to learn
S4,refer to my resume attached, for more details.
Para3,S1,would appreciate it a lot, schedule an
Interview S2,Looking forward, to your reply, at your earliest
Convenience

The city is increasingly crowed and jammed. Faced with this, you are supposed to write a letter to the municipal department to:
1) Offer advice;
2) Call for a prompt solution;
3) NO LESS THAN 100 words;
4) Use “Zhang Wei” instead of your real name; 

模板改写：
To whom it may concern, 
    【目的】I am writing the letter for the purpose of conveying my deepest concern about the city congestion/ traffic jam in the city. 
【问题】It must be pointed out that the current situation is going from bad to worse. 【行动】Accordingly, it’s urgent for us to  take effective measures.  【建议1】In the first place, we should enhance the public’s awareness of the gravity of it. 【建议2】In the second, we should appeal to the relevant department to set up strict regulations against  it. 【建议3】 In addition, mass media should help devise ways of easing the bad trend. 










Example 1：application letter 求职信
Dear Sir or Madam,
【目的】I’m writing this letter for the purpose of applying for the position [as posted in the
newspaper].
【资质】My qualifications, I believe, just amply meet your requirements. 
【教育背景】In the first place, my major, English, is perfectly in line with this job. 
【工作经验】In the second, my previous work experience [as a middle-school English teacher] 
has helped lay a solid foundation for the work here. 【自身素质】In addition, 
I am a good team player, self-motivated and eager to learn. 
Please refer to my resume attached for more details.
【感激】I would appreciate it a lot if you could schedule an interview for me. 
【期待】I am looking forward to your reply at your earliest convenience. 

															Yours truly,
 															Li Ming
 


4.2， Example 2: applying letter 申请信
To whom it may concern,
【目的】I’m writing the letter for the purpose of applying to be a volunteer for the 2008 Beijing
Olympic Games. 
【资质】My qualifications, I believe, just amply meet your requirements.
【教育背景】 In the first place, my specialty, English, is perfectly in agreement with the job. 
【工作经验】In the second, my previous work experience as a social volunteer 
has helped lay a solid foundation for the work here.【自身素养】Moreover, 
I am a good team player, self-motivated, and eager to learn.
【感激】I would appreciate it a lot if you could schedule an interview for me. 
【期待】I am looking forward to your reply at your earliest convenience.
Yours truly,
Li Ming

2, example Recommendation Letter
Dear Judy,
【目的】 I’m writing the letter for the purpose of recommending Allen, 
one of my best colleagues. He is seeking employment as a sales manager in your company.
【符合要求】His qualifications, I believe, amply meet your requirements. 
【有经验】 In the first place, his rich experience as a sales manager has helped lay a solid foundation for the work here. 
【有素养】 In the second, he is a good team player, self-motivated and eager to learn. 
【值得考虑】Accordingly, I’m certain that he deserves your consideration.
【感谢】 I would appreciate it a lot if you could schedule an interview for him. 
【期待】I’m looking forward to your reply at your earliestconvenience.
Yours truly,
 Li Ming


Example: Resignation Letter
Dear Mr. Jack,
【目的】I’m writing the letter for the purpose of resigning from my current position.
【不合适】After several months of work, I find it inappropriate for me to 
take the position [as an editor] for the following reasons. 
【没挑战】 In the first place, I ever expected the job to be both challenging and rewarding,
 which has turned out to be the opposite.【工资低】 In the second, the salary has 
 proved to be a lot lower than you had originally promised and I have a large family to support. 
 【要辞职】As a result, I’ve made up my mind to quit the job after much deliberation.
 
【谢机会】Thanks a lot for having offered me the golden opportunity to work with the outstanding staffs here.
 I sincerely hope you will approve of my resignation.【感Sorry】 I am genuinely sorry for any inconvenience caused.
Yours truly,
Li Ming

2, Example 1: 宏观大建议
 To whom it may concern,
【目的】I am writing the letter for the purpose of conveying my deepest concern about / making suggestions on the “White paper”.
【问题】It must be pointed out that the current situation is going from bad to worse. 
【行动】Accordingly, it‘s urgent for us to take effective measures. 
【建议1】In the first place, we should
enhance the public’s awareness of the gravity of it. 
【建议2】In the second, we should appeal to the relevant department to set up strict regulations against it.
 [For example, changing more on the plastic bags]. 
 【建议3】 In addition,(下接））mass media should help devise ways of easing the bad trend.
【感谢】Thanks a lot for paying due attention to the letter. 
【期望】I am Looking forward to seeing some new changes in the society soon.
Yours truly,
Li Ming
Example 2: 具体事件小建议
Dear Sir or Madam,
【身份】I’m a student from the Department of Foreign Languages and 【目的】I am writing the letter for the purpose
 of making some suggestions on/ about the library’s service.
【问题】 It must be pointed out that 【the present situation is going from bad to worse】. 
【行动】Accordingly, it’s imperative/urgent for us to take effective measures. 
【建议1】To begin with, why not set up an inquiry desk at the circulation hall? 
【建议2】In addition, students should have access to the latest issues of foreign magazines. 
【建议3】Finally,you’d better maintain strict order in the reading room.
【感谢】Thanks a lot for paying due attention to the letter.
【期待】 I am looking forward to seeing
some new changes in our library room.
Yours truly,
Li Ming




Dear Judy,
【目的】I’m writing the letter for the purpose of conveying my thanks for [your warm reception
during my recent visit to your country].
【原因1】Your friendly warmth made it possible that I had a pleasant time in America. 
【原因2】And it was your generous help that allowed me the chance to know the American culture better. 
【原因3】In addition, I consider it an honor for me to make a friend of you.
【内容：感谢方式】 I hope that you would visit our country in due course 
so that I could enjoy the opportunity to repay your kindness and refresh our friendship.
【再次感谢】Please accept my sincere thanks. 【祝福】Wish you all the best.
Yours truly,
 Li Ming

Dear Judy,
【目的】 I’m writing the letter for the purpose of expressing my sincere congratulations on [your promotion to general manager of the company].
【得来不易】I know how hard you’ve worked to attain this goal. 【激动】Therefore, I can imagine your excitement when you realized such an ambition. 【值得】Indeed, no one could have been more deserving than you. 【鼓励】On the other hand, for me, it would be a real encouragement to see your pains rewarded.【骄傲】 [ In short, I take
great pride in your achievements].
【祝贺】Please accept my sincere congratulations.【期待】I wish you still further success.
 Yours truly,
 Li Ming


Example Apology Letter
Dear Judy,
【目的】I’m writing the letter for the purpose of making a sincere apology to you for my carelessness.
【原因】When I arrived home, I found I forgot to return the music CD that you had lent me.【道歉】 I felt awfully sorry for this.【解释】 As I understand this CD is one of your favorites, 【补救】I’ll try my best to send it back as soon as possible.
【道歉】Please accept my heartfelt apology. 【请求原谅】I genuinely hope you can forgive me for my carelessness.
Yours truly,
 Li Ming





Example Complain Letter
To whom it may concern,
【目的】 I’m writing the letter for the purpose of making a complaint about the laptop I bought last week.
The reasons for my complaint are as follows. 【原因1】In the first place, the system often broke down for no reason, which led to the loss of my key data. 【原因2】 In the second, the color of the screen was abnormal and couldn’t be adjusted. 【消极后果】Accordingly, I find it difficult to go on with my work.
【重申要求】My demand is that you should take this matter into serious consideration and give me a satisfactory reply as soon as possible. 【敦促】At the same time, I genuinely hope to see some improvement in your services.
Yours truly,
Li Ming

Invitation Letter
 Dear Sir or Madam,
【自我介绍】I am a head of a household electric appliance plant, which is a major manufacturer of high-quality recorders.【目的】 I’m writing the letter for the purpose of inviting you to the exclusive presentation of our new models and a reception.
【活动介绍】The presentation is scheduled to take place at Noble Hotel on the third of January. 【邀请】I’ll feel it an honor if you could come. There will also be a reception at 2 p.m. I hope you will attend too.
【客套】Since your presence is of vital importance to this occasion, I do hope you can make it. 【要求】Just call our office at 010-69985421, and we will be glad to reserve a place for you.【期待】 I’m looking forward to seeing you at that day.
Yours truly,
 Li Ming

Introduction Letter
Dear Judy,
【目的】 I’m writing the letter for the purpose of introducing Allen to you, one of my best colleagues.
【个人情况】Presently he is studying in Si Chuang University. 【计划】He will graduate in July and go to America for further study. 【原因】As it will be the first time for him to study aboard, he will be most likely to encounter a variety of difficulties. 【期待】Therefore, he hoped to enjoy your guidance in some ways. I would be most grateful if you could kindly offer help.
【感谢】Thanks a lot for paying due attention to the letter. 【期待】I’m looking forward to your reply.
Yours truly,
  Li Ming





请求信
To whom it may concern,
   I’m writing the letter for the purpose 【目的】ofasking you to help/ making a request to you to helpfind a child in a remote area to offer financial aid.
【条件】My requirements for the candidate are asfollows. In the first place,【条件1】 he must be inpoverty and truly in need of help. In the second, 【条件2】the child should be self-motivated and eager to learn. In addition, 【条件3】he must be willing to return to his hometown after graduation from university. From my plan, 【计划】I would send him
a certain sum of money each term.

咨询信
Dear sir or madam,
【目的】I’m writing the letter for the purpose of asking for the information concerning/ regarding/ about...
【询问信息】I will be grateful if you could so kind as to provide me with relevant information. 【信息1】First of all/ To begin with, would you please let me know if... is available. 【信息2】Furthermore, I am concerned about... . 【信息3】Last but not least, I wonder... .
【感谢】Thanks a lot for paying due attention to the letter. 【期待】I’ m looking forward to your reply at your earliest convenience.
Yours truly,
 Li Ming


NOTICE
To enrich the students’ campus life, the Postgraduates’ Association is 
【目的】recruiting volunteers for an international conference on globalization.
【条件】The requirements for the candidates are as follows.
 In the first place, 【条件1】the applicants must have outstanding skill at English. 
 In the second, 【条件2】they should be good team player, self-motivated and eager to learn. 
 Last but not the least, 【条件3】 the students with relevant working experience shall be preferred.
Those interested in the activity may sign up with the monitor of their class before the first of Feb.
 【期待】Everybody is welcome to join in it.
Postgraduates’ Association
 2010.11.28









备忘录
2, example
Date: January 15, 2011
To: All Students of the English Department
From: Class Monitor Zhang Wei
Subject: Spring Excursion
【目的】As spring arrives and the weather turns to be agreeable（To do sth./ In order to do sth.）, the department has decided to organize a spring excursion in a suburban country.
【主题内容】The activities include mountain climbing and picnic.【对象】 All the students of the English department are encouraged to participate. 【注意事项】We remind you of the necessity of bringing some food and water as well as wearing comfortable shoes.Those interested in this excursion maysign up with the monitor of their class. 
【期待】Everybody is welcome to join in it.


报告
To: Professor Clinton
From: Zhang Wei
Date: January 15, 2011
Subject: A Progress Report on Graduation Research
(目的)This is a report I have to submit to you about my graduation paper.
(进度1）Last week, I gathered information from library and from an interview. Of the twelve references lists on my proposal, I found only nine,for others I will go to search in a larger library.
(进度2)As far as interview concerned, I had an extended interview with Mr. Liming, a professor from Peking University, who was kind enough to give me some brochures as well as a copy of report on electronic mail. I hope to use in my paper.
(进度3)Starting tomorrow, I will begin organizing my paper. (期待)And I can be expected to submit a rough draft by the end of the month.
